Interfaces and Type Aliases are a way you
can give a friendly name to your types.
Remember, we're still operating
within a structural type system here.
So the fact that you call your interface,
car, or fruit or whatever it is,
that's for you, and other people
that contribute to your code base,
it's just a friendly name.
In many cases, you're going to be
able to be free to choose whether
you wish to use an interface,
or a type alias.
So we're first gonna talk
about type aliases because
they're the easier of the two concepts.
Then we'll talk about interfaces.
In particular, we're going to talk
a little bit about how they work with
classes and
how they work with inheritance.
We'll talk about what it means to say,
interfaces are open in TypeScript.
And then finally, I'm gonna give
you a little guide about what
are the cases where I do have
an opinion about which one you use,
and finally, defining recursive types.
After this, we're gonna do our
first collaborative exercise and
build types that describe
any valid JSON value.
We're gonna write some
code until the tests pass.
So let's get to it.
Type aliases.
So, we've dealt with types
that look like this,
be they a piece of user information or
a car.
Colon and then a bunch of stuff.
And you can imagine I'm
sure you don't have to
imagine too hard that as we add a third,
fourth,
fifth, sixth property to this,
it starts to get very, very cumbersome.
You're gonna end up making a spelling
error or if you wanna add one more
thing to this, maybe you have to
update seven different places,
it's just gonna become a lot, right?
So, Type aliases help with this.
Three things they do for us.
They allow us to give our type a more
meaningful name, something that is
semantic, right, where the name of
the thing describes its purpose.
We're going to be able to declare a type
alias in a single place and imported and
exported it just as if it were a value
the same way we would import an export
functions or constants or anything like
that from other JavaScript modules.
So we can centrally define at once and
refer to it in a bunch of
different places, which is great.
That's gonna make our lives much
easier as things get more complicated.
So, this is the first multifile
example I'm showing you.
Please just trust that imports and
exports work reasonably well.
So this is like a hypothetical filename.
Here's an export from the file name.
And then you can see
it's imported down here.
And the type information
does sort of flow through.
Here you can see that instead of
just to saying I have this type and
using this for every variable,
every function parameter I care about,
we're saying,
I'm gonna create an alias for this type.
So I'm gonna use this type keyword.
I'm gonna give my alias a name.
And then we're gonna set it
equal to some type information.
And it's important to understand
a couple things here.
One, this is a very rare situation
where we can see type information
appearing on the right hand
side of an assignment operator.
Usually it's all on the left.
Almost always it's all on the left, right?
The second thing this declaration
we're making, this user contact info.
This will disappear as part
of your build process.
It'll just compile straight out.
So it doesn't add any asset size or
anything like that.
Alright, so this is how it's defined and
we can export it just as if it were,
function or something else.
So let's look at how we can use it.
So we import it.
And then we can use it in place of
explicitly stating the type itself.
And we could use this in a bunch of
different functions in this file.
So we're really just giving a Type a name.
That's all in it.
That's why they call it a type alias.
And you can use a type alias for
any type you wish to define,
there are really no limitations
beyond what TypeScript itself can do.
I'm just simply making the point here
that we don't need things to be labelled
with this specific type, we're just
describing a structure here, right?
User contact info, anything that has
the right properties will make this happy.
So here's an example of something that
it does have this access property.
We're storing it as a variable, so it's
fine, but it's totally fine to use it even
though the variable doesn't explicitly
have user contact info as its type.
All that matters is the structure lines up
So, we already talked a bit
about this declaration syntax.
Type information on the right
side of the equal sign.
The convention is to use title case for
names of type aliases and
interfaces for that matter.
And Just like variables,
you can only have one type alias
of a given name in a given scope.
Seems weird for me to say that but
that limitation does not exist for
interfaces.
So this would break for type aliases, but
it would not break for interfaces.
So we're gonna look at how a type alias
can clean up some code that we've
seen before.
And in this case, we're back to our coin
flip where we return an error sometimes,
a success case in time.
A success case if the coin
lands the right way,
we're gonna look at how this
code can get cleaned up.
And remember, this implementation
is gonna be the same in both cases.
So we're really gonna focus
on this function signature.
This is how we could clean
it up with type aliases.
So we could say here is the tuple for
our error case.
Here's the tupple for
our success case, and then below here,
we can define the third alias
that describes the union type,
right, the or between the two.
By the way, this pipe here, this extra
pipe, that's just auto code formatting,
doing its thing.
It is not harmful, but it does.
It's also not necessary.
Doesn't make things a little bit more
readable because you can sort of just go,
follow the line straight down.
Look how much nicer this return type
is compared to this whole thing.
It's just a little bit more easy to read.
All right, let's talk about,
I'm calling it inheritance,
it's pseudo inheritance, right?
But how would we take
an existing type alias and
create something that sort
of builds on top of it?
So in this case,
it's very similar to what we saw with
when we were studying this and
the intersection type.
Special date has everything date has.
Analytics effectively extends although
we're not using an extends keyword, but
we're accomplishing something equivalent,
right?
We're saying date is a type.
And I'm gonna take everything
that it's giving me.
And on top of that,
I'm doing some other stuff.
So this is a good use case of this.
This intersection type operator,
not truly inheritance but
has the exact same outcome.